## Tools Used for Monitoring in Kubernetes

Monitoring Kubernetes clusters and applications can be achieved using various tools and technologies. Here are some commonly used monitoring solutions:

1. **Prometheus**:
   - An open-source monitoring and alerting toolkit designed for reliability and scalability. It collects metrics from configured targets at specified intervals and stores them in a time-series database.

2. **Grafana**:
   - A powerful visualization tool that integrates with Prometheus and other data sources to create interactive and informative dashboards for monitoring metrics.

3. **Kube-state-metrics**:
   - A service that listens to the Kubernetes API and generates metrics about the state of the objects in the cluster, providing insights into the health and performance of Kubernetes resources.

4. **Elasticsearch, Fluentd, and Kibana (EFK Stack)**:
   - A popular logging and monitoring stack where Fluentd collects logs, Elasticsearch stores them, and Kibana provides a web interface for searching and visualizing log data.

5. **Datadog**:
   - A cloud-based monitoring and analytics platform that provides comprehensive monitoring for cloud applications, including Kubernetes. It offers features like dashboards, alerts, and integrations with various services.

6. **Sysdig**:
   - A monitoring and security platform specifically designed for containers and Kubernetes. It provides deep visibility into application performance and security.

7. **New Relic**:
   - A performance monitoring tool that offers insights into application performance, infrastructure monitoring, and user experience monitoring for Kubernetes environments.

8. **Alertmanager**:
   - A component of Prometheus that handles alerts generated by Prometheus server and manages alert notifications to various channels.

These tools help ensure that Kubernetes clusters are running optimally, allowing teams to monitor performance, troubleshoot issues, and maintain the overall health of their applications.

To use the configuration given here first create a namespcae using the follwoing command

```bash
kubectl create namespace monitoring
```
After using this command then following the guidelines in the respective folders.And following the sequcence:
1) [Prometheus](Prometheus/)
2) [Kube-State-Metrics](Kube-State-Metrics/)
3) [Alertmanager](Alertmanager/)
4) [Grafana](Grafana/)
5) [Node-Exporter](Node-Exporter/)

Here the platform [DevCube](https://devopscube.com/) Helped me a lot and i have used all the files mentioned.